In this section, we are going to learn about
VTP or virtual trunking protocol.
What is vtp and when we need to configure
vtp?
We will learn about vtp with an example case.
For example here we have 12 switch, and in
each switch we need to create 200 vlan.
Absolutely this is not effective if we need
to create a vlan one by one in each switch.
The first problem is time, we will need much
of time to configure 200 vlan in each switch.
The second problem is human error.
We as human, will be bored if doing repetitive
job for long time.
And if we bored, we will doing a mistake.
This is why we will use VTP.
If we use VTP, the vlan will be created automatically.
In VTP, we will have mode server and mode
client.
1 switch will be configured as server and
others switch will be configured as client.
For example we configure this switch as vtp
server, and then all others switch will become client.
Later we only need to create 200 vlan on this
vtp server, and then the vlan will be created
automatically on switch which configured as
vtp client.
Okay so that is the concept of vtp, I hope
you understand the concept of VTP.
And I think enough for this video, in the next video we
are going to practice about vtp.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!